Allow to provide custom configuration for JAXB context (#25801)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/resteasy-reactive.adoc

and serialised to XML, for <<resource-types,all the types not already registered with a more specific
serialisation>>.

==== Advanced JAXB-specific features

When using the `quarkus-resteasy-reactive-jaxb` extension there are some advanced features that RESTEasy Reactive supports.

===== Inject JAXB components

> The JAXB resteasy reactive extension will serialize and unserialize requests and responses transparently for users. However, if you need finer usage of the JAXB components, you can inject either the JAXBContext, Marshaller, or Unmarshaller components into your beans:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JAXB resteasy reactive extension will serialize and unserialize requests and responses transparently for users. However, if you need finer grain control over JAXB components, you can inject either the JAXBContext, Marshaller, or Unmarshaller components into your beans:
```

[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class MyService {

    @Inject
    JAXBContext jaxbContext;

    @Inject
    Marshaller marshaller;

    @Inject
    Unmarshaller unmarshaller;

    // ...
}
----

[NOTE]
====

> Quarkus will automatically register all the classes annotated with `@XmlRootElement` to the JAXB context.

Reviewer: It is not clear what `automatically register` means in this context

Author: Replaced with:
`Quarkus will automatically find all the classes annotated with `@XmlRootElement` and then bound them to the JAXB context.`

====

===== Customize the JAXB configuration

To customize the JAXB configuration for either the JAXB context, and/or the Marshaller/Unmarshaller components, the suggested approach is to define a CDI bean of type `io.quarkus.jaxb.runtime.JaxbContextCustomizer`.

An example where a custom module needs to be registered would look like so:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
public class RegisterCustomModuleCustomizer implements JaxbContextCustomizer {

    // For JAXB context configuration
    @Override
    public void customizeContextProperties(Map<String, Object> properties) {

    }

    // For Marshaller configuration
    @Override
    public void customizeMarshaller(Marshaller marshaller) throws PropertyException {
        marshaller.setProperty("jaxb.formatted.output", Boolean.TRUE);
    }

    // For Unmarshaller configuration
    @Override
    public void customizeUnmarshaller(Unmarshaller unmarshaller) throws PropertyException {
        // ...
    }
}
----

[NOTE]
====

> It's not necessary to implement the three methods, but only the want you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not necessary to implement all three methods, but only the want you need.
```

====

Alternatively, you can provide your own `JAXBContext` bean by doing:

[source,java]
----
public class CustomJaxbContext {

    // Replaces the CDI producer for JAXBContext built into Quarkus

>     @Singleton

Reviewer: I would also add `@Produces` here

Author: +1
I've also updated the guide of `rest-json.adoc` where I took this code snippet from.

    JAXBContext jaxbContext() {
        // ...
    }
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
====

> By replacing the JAXB context, you need to bound the classes to be serialized/unserialized and also configure the JAXB context accordingly. 

Reviewer: > you need to bound the classes

What does this mean?

Author: Updated with:
`Note that if you provide your custom JAXB context instance, you will need to register the classes you want to use for the XML serialization. This means that Quarkus will not update your custom JAXB context instance with the auto-discovered classes. `
